# week-3-project-cookie-clicker-game

A game made for my week 3 project, it's a cookie clicker game

## User stories

As a user, I can visit the page and see my current number of cookies As a user, I can click the giant cookie and increase my number of cookies by 1 As a user, I can spend cookies to buy upgrades for my cookie factory, As a user I can click the reset button to reset my number of cookies and the upgrades I have purchased, As a user I can see how which and how many upgrades I have purchased.

# The game

I decided to use a cookie emoji as the button you press to gain cookies. When the cookie is clicked it adds one to the user’s cookie count. I used an event listener to detect when the button was clicked, and the function attached adds one to their cookie counter. To do this I used the increment operator (++). The player starts at one cookie per second being generated, to increase this the user must purchase upgrades with cookies they have earned. Both the number of cookies a player currently has, and the current CPS are displayed on the screen. I decided to shrink the cookie and add a shadow to it when it is clicked this simulated movement and gives the user feedback letting them know the cookie has been clicked successfully. The displayed cookie count is updated each time the value changes so the user always has access to the correct value.

My html file was very basic and only contains a few elements, most elements are being created within JavaScript. For example, my shop items are fetched from the API provided and then or each object in the array we retrieved, a div is made that contains a button that can be used to purchase the upgrade displayed. The name, price and effect were provided to us. I decided to add an additional property I named purchase; I used this property to track how many times the upgrade has been purchased. When an upgrade is purchased the property value is updated and saved to local storage. If an item has been purchased (purchase >0) then a div is created to show the user what upgrades are present. If the value reaches 0 the contents of the div are completely removed so the user doesn’t have a display that tells them they have purchased an upgrade zero times.
As well as the shopItem array being saved to local storage the users current cookieCounter and CPS are saved too. This enables me to retrieve this data so that the user can start where they left off last time, they used the cookie clicker. All of this information is saved on every increment to the most up-to-date is always available in local storage
As the upgrades were fetches as an array of objects, I used a forEach loop to generate their displayed information, button to purchase them and the event listeners that handled increasing the CPS and displaying how many upgrades they have purchased. I only increased the CPS when an upgrade was purchased as I thought if I increased the cookies on click it would get out of hand very quickly. I used setIncrement to add the user’s CPS to their current cookie total.

After I had achieved the game functionality I wanted (CPS being added to the cookie count each second, upgrades being available and the user being able to continue playing if they left the site and returned) I worked on the styling. I picked a simple layout of three even columns. The central column contained the clickable cookie, the user’s current cookie count and their CPS. I placed these in the middle as these elements require the most attention in my opinion. I rendered the shop on the right side of the screen, so it was visible and accessible without taking away focus from the centre. When a player purchases upgrades these are displayed on the left column, I used the same reasoning for the right and left columns. I used a pastel green, a desaturated rose colour and a teal colour as I think they go well together and don’t clash harshly.

I think I progressed through this task in good time, I don’t think I was stuck on any issues for an extended period. One issue I had was remembering to call renderShop() within the async function I used to import the data as when I initially tried the data did not yet exist to populate my shop.
